h1. ScrumJet: RESTful task tracking experiment built with webmachine

ScrumJet's experimental premise is simple: I wanted to learn more about webmachine[1].  Basic task tracking is a fairly simple thing to implement and has lots of obvious ways to link things together.

h2. Running the Experiment

Pre-requisitites:
* Mercurial (to get webmachine)
* Erlang/OTP

Shell 1:
<pre>
make
./start-dev.sh
</pre>

Shell 2:
<pre>
./load-test-data.sh
</pre>

Open http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in a web browser.

h2. Motivation

REST(Representational State Transfer) is an architectural style which can be applied well to such a system and webmachine makes it easy to implement in Erlang[2].

h2. Overall Architecture

ScrumJet is broken out into _resources_ for _tasks_, _categories_, _boards_ and utility resources for representing linkages amongst them.  Much of the motivation for this architecture came from reading RESTful Web Services[3].  As such it focuses on providing a well-connected HTML representation of each resource.  I am likely to eventually add JSON(JavaScript Object Notation) representations to the resources for efficiency, but my goal at the moment is a proper RESTful architecture.  I find it easier to achieve that in HTML.

Part of the motivation for this architecture is a secondary educational goal of learning how to build an ARIA on top of a RESTful web service using Dojo[5].  Obviously Dojo[5] prefers JSON(JavaScript Object Notation) so when I get ScrumJet to that point I will certainly want the resources to be able to represent themselves as JSON(JavaScript Object Notation).

h3. Underlying Architecture

ScrumJet's _resources_ are implemented as webmachine[1] resources.  Each resource generates an HTML representation based on state stored in one or more mnesia[6] tables.  Specifically, each resource uses a gen_server to work with its primary state in an mnesia table and uses the gen_servers of other resources to determine connections or links to be rendered in the representation.

[1]http://bitbucket.org/justin/webmachine/wiki/Home
[2]http://erlang.org/
[3]http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596529260/
[4]http://json.org/
[5]http://dojotoolkit.com/
[6]http://erlang.org/doc/apps/mnesia/